# 描述图画

## 同质图模板

### 第一句 *套话*

+ What the picture **portrays** / the pictures **portray** is such a meaningful scene
+ **Portrayed** in the picture / pictures is such a thought-provoking scene
+ As is depicted / shown / illustrated in the picture / pictures

### 第二句 *细节描写*

+ 描述 *中心人物*的 *外貌动作状态神情、所在环境、其他人物*等

+ 倒装句
  + in the beautiful scenery **is/stands** a girl
  + around the table **are/sit** four teenagers
+ 定语从句
  + girl, **who** is wearing a traditional Chinese costume
  + teenagers, **who** are concentrating on their smartphones
+ 非谓语：*现在分词、过去分词、不定式*
  + girl, **smiling and wearing** a traditional Chinese costume
  + teenagers, **having** no intention of eating or talking with each other
+ with
  + girl, **with** a smile on her face
  + teenagers, **with** no intention of eating or talking with each other
+ 添加修饰语
  + in the beautiful scenery stands a **young and pretty American** girl, who is wearing a **gorgeous **traditional Chinese costume, with a **broad sunny** smile on her face.
  + Around the **dinner** table are four teenagers, who are concentrating on their smartphones **respectively**

### 第三句 *翻译文字说明*

+ 先写 *套话*，在后面 *翻译*题目给出的汉字，如题目已给出 *英文*，则不写

+ At the bottom the caption **indicates / states**
+ Eventually, under the picture there is the caption, which reads 
+ The picture comes with a caption which can be **interpreted** in this way

## 对比图模板

### 第一句 *套话*

+ What the picture **portrays** / pictures **portray** is a sharp contrast between *two parenting styles*
+ As is **depicted** in the picture / pictures, there is a sharp comparison between *two different attitudes*

### 第二句 *写出共同点*

+ 两个对象需要 *共同点*才能构成对比，二者面对 *相同情景、相同环境、或是相同身份*
+ when引导
  + **when** facing the same overturned bottle of water
  + **when** educating their sons
+ 介宾短语
  + **over** the same overturned bottle of water
  + **on** the issue of parenting
+ 非谓语
  + **having** seen the bottle of water spill out
  + **educating** their children at home

### 第三句 *写出不同点*

+ 找出两个对象的差异，可能是**态度、动作状态、结果**不同
+ **转折词**
  + while、**whereas**（但是，然而）、but、yet、however、**nevertheless**（仍然，然而）、instead、**conversely**（相反地）、on the contrary、by **contrast** with（与...相比）
    + *one boy* buries his face in his hand, sighing and complaining that all is lost, **whereas** *the other man* is trying to pick up the bottle, feeling lucky for there is still a little left.
    + *one father*, watching TV himself, directs his son to study hard. **On the contrary**, *the other father* is working devotedly, with his son absorbed in his book

## 第一段完整版举例

+ **what the picture portrays** is such a thought-provoking scene: in the beautiful scenery stands a yound and pretty American girl, **who** is wearing a gorgeous traditional Chinese costume, **with** a broad sunny smile on her face.
+ **As is depicted in the picture**, around the dinner table sit four teenagers, **who** are concentrating on their smartphones respectively, **having** no intention of eating or talking with each other. **Eventually**, under the picture there is the caption, which reads: "gathering in the age of smartphones"
+ **As is depicted in the picture, there is a sharp contrast between two different attitudes.** **When** facing the same overturned bottle of water, one boy buries his face in his hand, sighing and complaining that all is lost, **whereas** the other man is trying to pick up the bottle, **feeling** lucky for there is still a little left.
+ **What the pictures portray is a sharp contrast between two parenting styles**. When educating their sons, one father, watching TV himself, directs his son to study hard. **On the contrary**, the other father is working devotedly, with his son absorbed in his book. At the bottom the caption indicates: "set an example instead of making demands"

# 评价论述

## 第一句 *引入主旨*

+ 表示 **强调**
  + Certainly、Obviously、Undoubtedly、Apparently、In fact
  + There is no doubt that
  + It is clear that
+ 图画的 **意图**
  + the message the given picture aims to convey is that ...
  + the intention behind the given picture is to show us ...
  + the purpose of the given picture is to attract our attention to ...
+ 话题词的性质
  + **好话题**
    + the importance of 
    + has become increasingly indispensable 
  + **坏话题**
    + the issue of 
    + has become increasingly harmful
  + **双刃剑话题**
    + is be a two-edged sword
    + can be both a help and a **hindrance**（障碍）
    + there are both advantages and disadvantages of
+ 在某些方面
  + in
    + our daily lives
    + our personal growth and social development
    + the development of the whole society

## 第二句 *说明下面将分点论证*

+ 前句较短，可在后面加 **定语从句**
  + , which can be divided concretely into two parts as follows
  + , which can be **elaborated in detail**（详细阐述） from the following two **perspectives**（态度、观点）
  + , which can be **presented at length**（详细介绍） by the following two aspects
+ 前句较长，可以另写一句
  + In my opinion / To my mind / From my perspective / Personally speaking
  + this can be divided concretely into two / three parts as follows
  + this can be explained in detail from the following two perspectives
+ 具体论证
  + 准备 *两点、三点* 对话题词 *好处/害处*的说明，在 *几个句子*之间使用 *连接词*，对于 *好话题*，可以说明其 *好处*后，再说明 **缺少**它的 *坏处*；对于 *坏话题*，说明其 *害处*后，再说明 **改正**它的 *好处*
  + 连接词
    + **first and foremost**（首要的）、to begin with、moreover、furthermore、in addition、additionally、what's more、besides、meanwhile、much more interesting、more specially、not only ... but also、for one thing...for another、at last、last but not least、finally、eventually
  + 个人层面
    + maintain physical and mental health / keep a positive / sound mental state
    + reduce / relieve pressure / stress / anxiety / boredom
    + develop a sense of responsibility / createivity / teamwork / purpose
    + build up / strengthen a sense of belonging / identity
    + get on well with others / stay in touch with others
    + maintain social connections / establish interpersonal relations
    + integrate / fit into society
    + broaden / expand our minds / horizons
    + enrich life experience / embrace new experience
    + cultivate creative thinking / exploration spirit / critical mind
    + keep / find passion / enthusiasm for life
    + promise a bright / worthy / rich / wonderful future
    + achieve / live a high-quality / happy / colorful life
    + achieve amazing accomplishments / make brilliant achievements
    + own more opportunities in the competition / become more competitive
    + turn failure into victory / overcome adversity
  + 社会层面
    + keep / maintain / preserve social stability / order / cohesion
    + relieve / resolve conflicts / tensions / risks / disputes
    + increase / enhance national cohesion / solidarity
    + promote mutual understanding / communication between ...
    + bridge the gap / shorten the distance between ...
    + increase employment opportunities
    + contribute to sustainable development
    + meet the material / intellectual / cultural / spiritual needs / demand of people
    + inherit and carry forward the fine traditional culture
  + 句型
    + 好话题
      + It is universally acknowledged that **XXX** enables / helps / makes us ...
      + ..., as an invaluable spirit / a driving force for / to ... , can ..., thus ...
    + 坏话题
      + It is universally recognized that **XXX** keeps / hinders / stops us from ...
      + **XXX**, as an urgent problem / a barrier / hindrance for / to ..., can ..., thus ...
    + 普通话题
      + **XXX** has recently aroused concern because of its great value / harm to ..
      + Another advantage / disadvantage of **XXX** is that it makes us able / unable to 
    + 双刃剑话题
      + On the one hand, there is no denying that we have derived much benefit from **XXX** , such as ... On the other hand, the undesirable impacts it has on our life cannot be neglected ...
      + For one aspect, it is beyond dispute that we have been enjoying enormous benefits from **XXX** , For another aspect, it is likely to bring some potentially disastrous consequences in the meantime.
  + 举例论证
    + for instance / for example / such as 
    + The success / achievement of **XXX** can largely explain the importance / harm of **XXX** , without which he / she wouldn't
    + It would have been impossible for XXX to ..., if he / she had not ..
  + 其他内容
    + scientific development、technological changes、globalization、social innovation、econmic boom、information explosion、growth of science、technology、advances in science、technology、communication
    + **Coincident**（同时发生的） with ( scientific and technological development ) is ..., which ...
    + Nowadays, the public is largely focused on ..., rather than on ...
    + In this modern pluralistic society, youngsters / individuals are becoming more and more ..., which ...
    + We are entering a completely new stage in history, which symbolizes the development of human civilization, in the meantime bringing about some problems, with ... being the foremost
  + 说明原因
    + 第一、二句 *引出现象、原因*
      + In fact, this chart is a **miniature**（微型） of a social phenomenon: an increasing number of **主体+行为**. Numerous factors can account for this phenomenon.
        + **In fact, this chart is a miniature of a social phenomenon**: a majority of college students travel for sightseeing and relieving stress. There are several factors that have contributed to this phenomenon.
        + **In fact, this chart is a miniature of a social phenomenon**: there are an increasing number of museums and their visitors in our country. Numerous factors can account for this phenomenon.
        + **As a matter of fact, the chart is a miniature of the status quo** : an increasing number of **主体+行为**. There are several factors that have contributed to this phenomenon
        + **In fact, this chart leads us to find out what causes the difference between** 主体1 **and** 主体2
    + 第三、四句 *具体原因*
      + On the one hand, **原因**. On the other hand, **原因2**
      + To begin with, **原因**. Besides, **原因2**. Last but not least, **原因3**
      + Firstly, **原因**. Secondly, **原因2**. Lastly, **原因3**
      + For one thing, **原因**. For another, **原因2**
      + First and foremost, **原因**. In addition, **原因2**. Most importantly, **原因3**
    + 经济发展类
      + With the boom of **具体行业** industry, it is no longer a problem for **主体** to **行为**, which causes the great increase / decrease of **主题** + **主体**
        + As people's **各种水平** improve, more and more **主体** + **行为**
      + The rapid development of economy which **主体** has experiences during the period has greatly imporved people's **各种水平**, which enables **主体** to **行为**
    + 法律政策类
      + The government has already worked out a series of effective policies to **政策意象**, which results the great increase / decrease of **主体**
      + Lacking laws and regulations to punish / protect those who **具体行为** leads to the **消极结果**
    + 个人意识类
      + With the improvement of **主体** + **各种意识**, an increasing number of **主体** + **行为**
      + Due to the lack of **各种意识**, it is no wonder that **主体** + **负面行为**, which is **detrimental**（有害的） to themselves and other people.
  + 第二段完整版举例
    + Obviously, the message the given picture aims to **convey** (传达) is that cultural integration has become increasingly indispensable in modern life, which can be elaborated in detail from the following two perspectives. Firstly, cultural blending, as a motive force of cultural development, can not only show the openness and inclusiveness of our national cultures but also improve our international position and influence. In addition, another advantage of intercultural communication is that it promotes mutual understanding, thus enhancing the friendship between people from different nations.
    + It is clear that such a scene above **reveals**(揭露) that mobile phones can be both a help and a hindrance for the young generation. The past couple of decades have witnessed a huge development of smartphones. On the one hand, there is no denying that we have derived much benefit from using our phones, such as acquiring information and knowledge quickly. On the other hand, getting lost in our phones in large measure constitutes an obstacle to the development of youngsters' interpersonal relations, which has become increasingly harmful to their personal growth. Furthermore, spending too much time on smartphones can hinder us from maintaining physical and mental health.
    + The intention behind the given picture is to show us the significance of optimism in our daily lives. From my perspecitve, this can be interpreted at length as follows. To begin with, staying optimistic, as an invaluable spirit to everyone, enables us to keep our passion for life, no matter what difficulty we are confronted with. Besides, thinking positively can help us relieve stress and anxiety, thus making us more likely to overcome adversity. The success of Helen Keller, a leading educator and an advocate for the blind and deaf, can largely explain the importance of keeping a positive mind, without which she wouldn't make such an impact on the world.
    + There is no doubt that such a scene above goes straight to the issue of family education. In my opinion, parents' behaviors have significant influences on children's growth, which can be presented at length by the following aspects. First of all, it is universally acknowledged that being a good role model for kids helps them develop wholesome personalities and live a happy and colorful life. Furthermore, family teaching plays a constructive part in carrying forward glorious traditions and national spirits, which contributes to the formation of a harmonious and civilized society. Therefore, at present, more emphasis has been put on parental education

## 第三段 *总结全文*

+ 重申主旨
  + 前半句 *表示总结*
    + In short / In brief / In conclusion / In summary / All in all / To sum up
    + Taking into account what has been mentioned, we can conclude that ...
    + As has been mentioned above, ...
  + 后半句 *重申话题词的性质*
    + No matter what the reason is, one thing is certain that ... (there is a growing / descending trend of **主体** + **行为** / an increasing number of **主体** + **行为**), which i believe will not change in a short time.
    + In a word, to reverse the trend is not **a piece of cake**（小菜一碟）, **it is high time**（是时候） that we should take effective and efficient measures to solve this problem.
+ 建议措施
  + 说明需要采取措施
    + , which needs more actions / steps / measures to be token
    + , and relevant / reasonable actions / steps / measures must be token promptly
    + Therefore / Consequently / Accordingly / As a result
      + countermeasures ( to control the phenomenon ) should be taken extensively.
      + concrete strategies must be taken immediately ( to reverse the present situaion )
      + much more efforts should be made ( to encourage / support ... )
      + it is high time that consistent actions were taken ( to cope with the problem )
      + in order to solve this urgent problem, we should propose viable measures
+ 第二句 *具体措施*
  + 个人层面
    + **remold**(改造) our attitude / change the mindset
    + enhance our awareness
    + **put a high value on** (提高价值)
    + **incorporate**(包含) ... into daily practice
    + acquire and keep this quality / trait
    + play a part in ... / contribute to ...
  + 社会层面
    + implement **proper**(实际上的) / **sustainable**（可以忍受的） policies
    + establish relevant regulations
    + launch extensive education
    + launch mass media campaigns
    + invest more energy and money
    + **foster a positive climate**(营造积极的氛围) / atmosphere
  + A widespread mass media campaign **is bound to be launched to** make citizens / teenagers / the public truly aware of ...
  + Relevant regulations **should be established to** encourage / punish
  + **Every individual**is expected to spare no effort to **remold their attitude**towards ...
  + **The government**should **implement sustainable policies to** ...
  + **The mass media**are *supposed to*（应该） **launch educational campaigns to**...
  + **The whole society**is **obliged**(必须的) to **foster a positive climate**that values / advocates ...
  + **The academic community** *ought to*（应该） **spend more time and energy**...
  + 憧憬展望
    + Let's embrace the harmonious / peaceful society constructed by our joint efforts.
    + The more rapidly actions are taken / The more energy and time we devote to it, the more benefit it will bring to our life.
    + Only by taking these practical and concrete steps, can we finally enjoy a high-quality life / brighter future.
    + If *主体* can reasonably **行为**, it is reasonable for us to believe that ...
      + If the restaurant owners cna reasonably provide a more beautiful environment and more beautiful environment and more considerate services, it is reasonable for us to believe that they will make huge profits.
    + Laws and regulations should be worked out and enforced to put an edn to this tendency. Only in this way can we ... ( *make a*比较级形容词，*world / live a*比较级形容词 life )
      + Laws and regulations should be worked out and enforced to put an end to this tendency. Only in this way can we make a safer world.
+ 第三段完整版举例
  + From the above discussion, we can come to the conclusion that cultural exchanges are of great importance for different nations and peoples in many ways. Therefore, countermeasures should be taken promptly. Every individual is expected to embrace the culture of other nations. The whole society is obliged to foster a positive climate that advocates cultural learning and exchange.
  + To sum up, we are supposed to make the best of cellphones and ward off their awful effects at the same time. The whole society should encourage people to put down their phones and participate in more social activities. Only by utilizing smartphones appropriate ly, can we finally enjoy a high-quality life.
  + As has been mentioned above, a positive attitude toward life is of great benefit so reasonable actions must be taken promptly. Every individual outght to put a high value on optimism and try to develop this spirit. The sooner we possess it, the more benefit it will bring to our life.
  + Given all of that, setting proper examples for children has become increasingly important so it ought to receive much more attention from people. A widespread mass media campaign is bound to be launched to make parents truly aware of the value of good family education. Schools are also supposed to encourage parents to be more involved in their children's education.

# 图表作文

### 第一段 *描述图表*

#### 表格、直方图

+ 第一句 *总体概括表格*
  + The table above clearly shows how the **主体+主题**varies from **分类依据**to **分类依据** in **地址**
    + The table above clearly shows how the number of car accidents varies from cause to cause in a Chinese city.
    + The table above vividly **depicts**(描述) how the employees' job statisfaction varies from age to age  in a company.
    + The bar chart above vividly **demonstrates**(演示) how the proportion of students taking part-time job varies from year to year in a college.
+ 第二句 *细节描写，突出最值*
  + **To be more specific**(具体而言，准确来说), **具体比例**of **具体类型的主体+主体行为**, which is the biggest / smallest proportion among all the **分类依据**
    + To be more specific, 64% of the employees aged between 41 to 50 are not satisfied with their jobs, which is the biggest / smallest proportion among all the ages.
  + **To put it more precise**(更准确地说), the number of **具体类型的主体** is **具体数字**, which is the largest / smallest among all the **分类依据**
    + To put it more precise, the number of the traffic accidents caused by drivers turning left without due care is 608, which is the largest of all the causes
+ 第三句 *细节描写，突出转折或并列*
  + 表 **转折**连接词
    + however, on the contrary, unfortunately, by contrast
  + 表 **并列**连接词
    + meanwhile, similarly, likewise, moreover

#### 多主体的直方图，折线图

+ 第一句 *总体概括图表*
  + As is clearly illustrated in the bar / line chart, the **主题** of **不同主体** / in **不同地区** varied / increased / decreased at different rates during the period from **时间起点** to **时间终点**
    + As is clearly portrayed in the bar chart, the number of mobile-phone subscriptions in both developed countries and developing countries increased at different rates during the period from 2008 to 2009.
    + As is clearly illustrated in the bar chart, the market shares of Chinese, Japanese and American cars varied at different rates during the period from 2008 to 2009 in China.
    + As is vividly indicated in the bar chart, the number of express age in the rural areas and total areas increased at different rates during the period from 2018 to 2020.
  + The line chart shows the accending / descending tendency of **主题** of **不同主体** / in **不同地区** from **时间起点** to **时间终点**
    + The line chart shows the ascending tendency of express age in the rural areas and total areas from 2018 to 2020.
+ 第二句 *细节描写，强调不同主体之间的变化对比*
  + To be more specific, the number of **主体+趋势+程度** from **具体数字** in **时间起点** to **具体数字** in **时间终点** . Meanwhile / On the contrary, the figure of **主体2+趋势+程度** from **具体数字** in **时间起点** to **具体数字** in **时间终点**
    + To be more specific, the rural population decreased fiercely from 834 million in 1990 to 674 million in 2010. On the contrary, the urban population increased sharply from 300 million in 1990 to 666 million in 2010.
  + To put it more precise, the number of **主体** in **时间终点** was **具体数字** compared to **具体数字** in **时间起点**, showing an increase / decrease of **数字差额**. Meanwhile / on the contrary, the figure of **主体2** dropped / rose by **数字差额**, from **具体数字** to **具体数字**
    + To put it more precise, the market shares of Janpanese cars in 2009 was 25% compared to 35% in 2008, showing a decrease of 10%. On the contrary, the percentage of Chinese cars rose by 8%, from 25% to 33%.

#### 扇形图

+ 第一句 *总体概括图表*
  + The pie chart above vividly demonstrates the different **主题** of **主体** in **地点** in **时间**
    + The pie chart above vividly demonstrates the different traveling purposes of student in a college.
    + The pie chart above clearly indicates the various reading purposes of student using mobile phones in a college
    + The bar chart above clearly shows the different ways of residents taking exercises in a certain city.
+ 第二句 *介绍扇形图中所有部分的比例*
  + Among all the items included in the graph, **最大项** dwarfs others with **占比**, **第二项** comes as the runner-up, which occupies **占比**, followed by **第三项** and **第四项**, which account for **占比** respectively, and **最后项** ranks the last, making up only **占比**
    + Among all the items included in the graph, sightseeing dwarfs others with 37%, relieving pressure comes as the runner-up, which occupies 33%, followed by other purposes and making friends, which account for 15% and 9% respectively, and clutivating independence ranks the last, making up only 6%
  + To put it more precise, the percentage of **第一项，第二项，第三项，第四项**and **第五项**is **占比一，占比二，占比三，占比四** and **占比五**respectively.
    + To put it more precise, the percentage of feature, service, environment, price and others is 36.3%, 27.4%, 24.3%, 7.3% and 4.7% respectively.
+ 第三句 *突出占比最大的部分或占比前排的几个部分*
  + Obviously, the most important **数字+主题**are **第一项**and **第二项**
    + Obviously, the most important two traveling purposes are sightseeing and relieving pressure.
  + When taking a closer look, we can find that **最大项** is the largest proportion of all categories
    + When taking a closer look, we can find that learning knowledge is the largest proportion of all categories.

### 解释原因

### 总结全文

# 文字作文

### 改写段落 + 表明态度

#### 改写段落

+ 第一句 *改写段落，简要描述*
  + This passage describes such a phenomenon:
  + In today's society, it is well-known that the problem of ... has caused wide concern
  + Due to the development of economy and the progress of science and technology, ... has become a common phenomenon in our daily life.
  + According to the passage, many people now think ...
  + As described in the written material, there is a social phenomenon
+ 第二句 *表明作者观点*
  + So, the author holds that + **文字中作者的观点**
  + However, the author's idea is contrary to the description.
  + Therefore, the author argues that + **文字中作者的观点**
  + The author thinks as most people do.
  + Somewhat different from what ordinary people think, according to the author in the above paragraph...

#### 表明态度

+ I agree with the author's point of view.
+ I totally agree with the author.
+ I don't agree with the author's point of view
+ I take issue with the author's view
+ I quite agree with the author.

### 说明原因

### 总结全文











